public speaking is one of the greatest
fears in so many people's lives this
concept of standing in front of a crowd
and delivering a presentation while
they're staring back at you or maybe
they're looking at their phones it is
frightening for so many people maybe
it's frightening for you maybe that's
why you've landed on this video and if
you have I'm so happy that you're here
because on this video I am going to try
to debunk four myths that many people
have about delivering a presentation and
speaking in front of other people hey
everyone if this is your first time
landing on this channel my name is Wade
Patterson very simply I am passionate
about impactful communication and I
create videos to help make you a better
Communicator which I seemingly struggle
with right now but if that's something
you're interested in please consider
subscribing to my channel back to the
video a myth many people have about
public speaking is that they shouldn't
get nervous or if they do get nervous
that that's a bad sign and I'll disagree
on that I will tell you that to this day
anytime I speak in front of a crowd or a
group of people I still get some level
of nerves and really and I I think that
this is actually a famous simonet quote
that is my body indicating that I care
that I want to do well that is my body
getting physically prepared prepared for
what I'm about to do and those nerves it
shows that I want to do a good job and
so if you have those nerves before you
get on stage what's important is to
remember that there is nothing unique or
abnormal about that that is perfectly
fine what's important is that you
transfer that energy and that you don't
let it cause you to freeze and not
deliver to the best of your ability but
rather that you embrace it and that you
harness it to deliver the presentation
in your best ability possible another
myth about public speaking is that you
can wing it and be completely fine and I
understand by saying that's a myth I
maybe not being 100% accurate but I will
strongly say that the vast vast vast
majority of speeches could be improved
if there was more practice involved for
some reason we've romanticized this idea
of getting in up in front of a crowd
with zero practice and off the top of
our head saying
something incredibly eloquent that moves
the crowd to a standing ovation and that
this is somehow a thing or a skill set
that we should be able to have somewhere
within us and the truth is even many of
the best speakers who appear to be
incredibly natural do a lot of practice
behind the scenes public speaking is no
different than any skill set or
profession where people are really good
LeBron James didn't get good at
basketball by just winging it he put in
the time he practiced people who are
great at their various professions it's
because they put in the time and they
practice so for speaking no matter what
level you are at I encourage you
practice and the more often you practice
and go through the repetitions and get
used to the content in your head the
better that delivery is going to be the
third myth about public speaking this is
a weird one that you should think of the
audience and their
underwear I don't know where that came
from this is a
longstanding thought or tradition or
something that comes up in movies and TV
shows and it's insane I mean this is
something that I have never done and nor
do I encourage you to do I don't know
how that could help maybe somehow the
idea is that you're putting your
audience in a vulnerable position but to
be completely honest I think this
process of trying to do that in front of
a group of people is going to be so
incredibly distracting and there's no
way you can be thinking of the content
you need to deliver while you're doing
this silly thing and so to anyone who
has heard that thinking of your audience
in their underwear is a great idea and
is going to help you as a public speaker
I mean maybe I'm wrong let me know on
the comments but I will stand by it that
that is myth number three I do not think
that's a good idea the fourth myth about
public speaking or how to be a great
public speaker is that you should write
out your speech word for word I actually
think that's not a good process I don't
think that is a good way to build a
speech unless that is just the beginning
part of your process and then very
quickly you move to not relying on those
notes the reason I say writing a speech
out word for word is not a good plan is
because the best speakers are ones that
don't use notes simply put anyone who
has stood by El Lecter reading from
their notes verbatim especially you can
hear it in their voice you can see it
with their lack of body language these
are typically not engaging speakers
there is very very rare examples where
I've seen someone read of a paper all of
their written notes where I've thought
wow that speech was one of the best
speeches I've ever seen it's simply not
the case now with that said I have seen
some brilliant people articulate their
thoughts into notes and share those but
the argument that I would say here is
that they could do an even better more
impactful job if they Incorporated body
language if they Incorporated vocal
variety these are the skills that that
bring an audience in and allow them to
get the full the full version of your
message because we know that the
majority of communication it doesn't
come through the words that we speak it
comes through body language and it comes
through vocal tone so if you take away
those two massive elements you're left
with a very small percentage of how a
message is communicated you're relying
on just the words and my argument is
that words aren't enough so I don't
think think you should build your
speeches verbatim word for word so
you're probably wondering well what does
that mean how do I build my speech then
and the answer is that you can build it
through various categories so for
example if you're building an
educational speech and you're going to
give seven tips about something then you
go through those seven tips and perhaps
you have slides and each slide is a
title with five or less words and an
image that represents one of those seven
tips and then you move to the next slide
and then the next slide and so rather
than relying on notes you have visual
cues of what generally you should be
talking about next and this is how I
think you should practice your speech as
well is in these General topic chunks
that move along so you should know your
beginning really well your intro then
you should know the main points of your
body so if it's seven points you should
know all of those seven things and the
sequential order they come in and then
the conclusion you should memorize that
as well but the Seven Points each time
you practice it it might be slightly
different but as long as you're getting
across the general information that
you're hoping to
portray that is okay because you need to
remember that the audience doesn't know
what you've written down they can't see
your note so if you forget to mention
something it's not the end of the world
the audience didn't know you were
planning on mentioning it anyways
but I do think that you're going to do a
much better job communicating and
engaging with your audience if you don't
rely on word for word notes I hope this
video on four myths about public
speaking has been beneficial to you
please consider subscribing to my
channel subscriptions help me so much
they allow me to put more time into
putting out this type of content to help
you become a better communicator and if
you do subscribe turn on those
notifications I i' also love if you left
a comment on my video let me know if I
missed something here or if you have any
questions I really really appreciate you
taking the time to watch this video and
I'll catch you on the next one people
are more scared of public speaking than
they are of
dying is it just me or is that wrong hey
everyone my name is Wade Patterson and I
am passionate about impactful
communication my YouTube channel has
helped hundreds of thousand thousands of
people improved their public speaking
skills and I am thrilled to release my
first ever course which has taken my
decade of learning about how to become a
better public speaker and boiled it down
to this theme of mastering the five
Essentials of public speaking I know for
a fact that if you can dial in these
five elements and perfect them you are
going to be a phenomenal public speaker
Head and Shoulders Above the Rest just
by being aware of these things by taking
the time to digest the information in
this course practice it and then put it
to action through your speeches you are
going to become a better public speaker
as a bonus in this course I sit down
with the world's greatest freestyle
rapper Harry Mack and one of the
greatest keynote speakers in the world
Shan kugo and I get their tips firsthand
of what makes them incredible at what
they do if you agree that public
speaking definitely should not be
scarier than dying sign up for my course
you won't regret it